
Next morning.

By the time I wake up, the rain has stopped.

Maybe I came off too strong?

Nah, it would have been weirder to leave her under the rain.

I don't think there's a problem with a part-time teacher lending an umbrella to a student.

As I'm deep in my thoughts, the door opens and I look up.
Arishima
...Early start?

My wife walks into the living room, dressed in her work suit.
Shouko
Need to make the rounds of the bookstores. New book's coming out.

I nod and keep sipping my coffee.
Arishima
Want some?

She shakes her head.
Shouko
No. No time.
Arishima
Seems pretty early, even for a new release.
Shouko
It's a new writer, so they're pretty enthusiastic. Say they wanna have a meeting in advance of the release.
Arishima
I see.
Shouko
Bye.
Arishima
Yeah.

I turn on the fan and light a cig.

It's been a while since I've seen her up this early.

Her schedule at the publishing company doesn't really line up with mine as a teacher.

And she doesn't take a lot of days off.

We sometimes talk a little after work, but we don't really go out as a couple anymore.

Most of our interactions are just out of obligation.

...A family doesn't live in this house.

It's just a place for me to brew my coffee.

I take a look at the wall clock.

It's about time for me to head out.

I put out the cig.
Arishima
Now, fill out this conjugation table.
Arishima
Mizenkei, Ren'yokei, Shushikei, Rentaikei, Izenkei, Meireikei. You'll be asked to fill in conjugation tables like this on the exam.
Arishima
You have five minutes. Try to solve them yourself.

Leaving them to their exercise, I sit down at my desk.

The students are focused on their notebooks.

I slowly cast my gaze over the classroom.

I notice a student sitting by the window, looking out instead of focusing on the activity.
Arishima
...

It's her.

She's looking out the window even here.

She did the same thing yesterday on the bus.

Pulling out the student seating chart, I run my eyes over it.

What I see leaves me speechless.

Hatano.
?
Professor Yamada did a lot for my father back in the day.

Her father...

I did feel there was something odd about that.

It's not common practice for a girl to attend the funeral of one of her father's university professors in his place.

There was something about it that just didn't make sense.

But she still came.

Because her father... is dead.

I take another look at her.

She is...

The daughter of Hatano Shuho.

She turns her eyes my way.

Those rose-colored eyes that almost seem to glow.

That white hair.

So she's... his daughter.

When our eyes meet, she smiles slightly.

Still taken aback, I stare at her smiling face.

Then I come blinking back to my senses and hurriedly look at my wristwatch.
Arishima
Okay, time's up.

I get up.
Arishima
Let's move on to irregular conjugations. The root of the word is...

I notice the students raising their faces in confusion and feel a wave of embarrassment hit me.

It's barely been two minutes out of the five I gave them to finish the exercise.

I hear some whispers of dissatisfaction at the sudden turnabout.

Walking up to the blackboard, I try to suppress the beating of my heart.

What is this feeling?

I turn my back to the room to hide the obvious embarrassment on my face.

Before I know it, the class is over.

He's the same teacher that lent me his umbrella yesterday.

As per usual, he quickly gathers his bag under his shoulder and leaves the classroom.

As soon as he closes the door, the classroom starts buzzing with whispers.
Schoolboy
Hey, wasn't Arishima acting weird?

I overhear the other students' chatter.

Some boys are talking among themselves.

Right, it's Arishima.

I'll write him a thank you letter later.

I'm sure he'll be in the library again today.

I always see him in the library after class.

The scent of food begins drifting about the classroom.

People start grouping up and opening their lunch boxes to eat together.

I look at my watch.

It's past noon.

Lunch time.

I'm not really hungry, but I'll just head to the cafeteria like usual.

It's lunch break.

No matter how hard I try, I can't focus on my book at all today.

And I've barely touched my curry.

My eyes keep wandering to Rin.

She's sitting at her usual spot.

Alone like always.

She absently takes bites of her food while looking out the window.

She's always looking out.

It's like her mind is miles away.

The cafeteria is full of students.

In this huge place, she's the only one who feels separate from the others.

She always looks prim and proper, and carries herself well.

Even from behind, you get a sense of her poise.

Why is she always alone?

Once afternoon classes are over, I go to the smoking room.

I feel like filling my lungs with smoke today.
Watanabe
Oh? Don't often see you here after school. Everything okay?
Arishima
...Yeah.
Watanabe
Hm?
Arishima
Just wanted a smoke.
Watanabe
Then share the love, man.

He sits next to me and I hand him a cig.
Watanabe
Not heading to the library?
Arishima
I'll go after this.

I stare at the smoke twisting about in the air of the small room.

In the morning, I drink my instant coffee and smoke a cigarette.

Then I go to my classes, do my thing, and come here at noon to smoke and talk to Watanabe while I'm at it.

And after my two afternoon periods, I go to the library to read.

It's the first time in recent memory my schedule has changed.

Or rather, I broke it.

I came here for a smoke because I need to calm down.
Watanabe
Man, you sure love them, eh?

I look up at Watanabe.
Arishima
What?
Watanabe
Books.
Arishima
Ah, books.

He nods.

I take a deep breath.
Arishima
I guess. I wonder about that.
Watanabe
You don't write anymore?
Arishima
...

I stare at the little red ring at the tip of my cig.

It slowly burns away at the paper, leaving a trail of ash in its wake.
Watanabe
If you love them so much, you should just write whatever.
Arishima
It's not that I don't want to.
Watanabe
Huh?
Arishima
I can't.

Upon saying that, I take a deep drag of my cigarette.

The sizzling sound it makes is almost soothing.

I never had anyone like Watanabe in my life back in my student days.

It was only when I met him that I realized there are actually people out there who don't feel the need to make up stories.

Never before had I met such an authentic person.

Maybe a person doesn't need stories if they can come to terms with reality.

I wouldn't know.

For me, becoming a novelist was the most noble goal imaginable.

I think being able to create stories that touch the hearts of people all over the world is the most amazing thing a person could do.

Like being a star with the power to influence the world around you.

At least, that's how I saw it.

But the "world" that books influence isn't that wide nowadays.

At the very least, Watanabe isn't part of that world.

And he seems way happier than I am.

Compared to him, I'm like a kid; an immature person looking for salvation in paper and ink.

A  forty-five-year-old manbaby.

At this point, it's not like I'll find anything else to fill the time I usually spend reading.

I can't have casual chats with my students like Watanabe does.

I'm reading a Hatano Shuho novel again today.

The afterword in this version is written by a popular actor.

Apparently, they were part of the main cast when the novel was made into a movie.

His novels captured hearts of the nation and became timeless classics.

Which means he wasn't just read by your average book readers; he also reached many who had picked up a book for the first time ever.

I'm already older than he was.

But he must have lived a much more meaningful life, surrounded by people that enriched his even more.

In comparison, my life is like a stretched-out rubber band that's of no use to anyone anymore.

Unable to hold anything together, just barely managing to not get torn apart.

Just content with barely holding together, with a heart as hollow as an empty can.

I vaguely stare at the ceiling, then look back down and get to my feet.

I feel a dull pain in my lower back.

It hurts when I sit for a long time.

I head to the door, pressing my hand to my back to try and rein in the spreading pain.

When I go to put my slippers back onto the shoe shelf, my hand brushes against something unexpected.

Peeking further in, I find a little small white envelope stuck between my shoes.

I take it and turn it over.

There's nothing written on it.

I look around me for a moment.

The only thing I see is the student committee member in charge of the library sorting the returned books.

Dropping my gaze back down to the letter, I open the envelope.

...

I raise my head and look around again.

I don't see her in the library, or outside the building.

When I look back at the letter, I notice something else in the shoe box: a small white bag.

I pick up the luxurious looking vinyl bag and look inside.

It's the folding umbrella I gave her yesterday.

She knew I was in the library?

I wonder since when...

She must come here often enough to have learned my habits.

Hatano Rin.

The daughter of Hatano Shuho.

I wonder what stories mean to her.

What does her late father mean to her?

Back at home, I turn on my laptop.

It's a cheap machine that's barely powerful enough to run writing software.

I press the ON button and wait for it to start up.

As it turns on, I hear the little fan running below the keyboard.

When it starts up, the first thing I do is open the web browser.

I type Hatano Shuho's name into the search engine.

The first hit shows a picture of the person in question along with a short profile description.

Clicking on the picture takes me to a more detailed page.

Hatano Shuho (1967-2006)

Japanese novelist. Playwright.

Graduated from Waseda University, second faculty of literature.

In 1989, he won the rookie writer award with his debut novel "Someday Daydream."

The same year, he began his career as a professional writer.

He married his first wife in 2000, and together they had a daughter. They divorced in 2007.

In 2009, he died of a heart attack.

He was 42 years old.
Arishima
...

When I read the part about his daughter, Rin's image flashes across my mind.

I scroll down and see a seemingly endless list of all his works.

Guess that's how it goes when you have that much talent.

I remember when I met him back during our college days.

There is no comparison between the two of us. His personality, ability, and resources were far beyond anything I could hope for.

I can feel the same air of otherworldliness he exuded back then just from reading the web page summarizing his life.

Finally, I reach the end of his long list of published works.

After that, there's a header that reads "Revised manuscripts."

Hatano Shuho was known for making many revisions to his work. With each reprinting of his novels, he altered the contents.

He continued revising his debut work, which was the most reprinted of his works, until the year of his death.

Each time, he urged his publisher to remove previous versions of the books from the shelves after a new revision was released.

Thanks to that, the trading value of the different versions can vary greatly among his fans.

First editions are particularly sought after by collectors.

Since the year of publication affects the price of the book, like the vintage of a wine, he was sometimes teasingly referred to as a book vintner.
Arishima
A vintner, huh?

Making enough revisions that it drives up the price of older versions is quite unusual.

What was he trying to do?

The revision article continues.

The bindings of his works also changed with each edition. The only work that has kept the same artwork on the cover throughout all its iterations is his debut novel.

The cover art in question is a bird's-eye view of a certain place in Yokohama that has become a sanctuary of sorts among enthusiastic readers.
Arishima
...

Is that the cover I saw at the library?

It was a photo of a cityscape at night.

Perhaps the place meant something to him?

After mulling over the question to which I obviously don't have an answer, I keep reading.

He never remarried.

I try to calculate how old Rin must have been when Shuho passed away.

But I realize she never mentioned her age.

I wonder what kind of life she's had after he died.

After that, I browse some more websites summarizing the man's life.

While many sources talk about him as a man of culture, there are few that mention his private or family life.

Of course, Rin's photo doesn't show up anywhere linked to his.

Maybe he made a point of keeping his family away from prying eyes.

I get the feeling that all the info I'll be able to glean online is from people looking at him through some kind of veil.

How can I find out more about the real man?

I ponder on it for a while and realize I know someone who was familiar with him.
Shouko
Hatano Shuho?
Arishima
You were his rep before, right?
Shouko
Yeah. A long time ago, and just for one publication.

After my wife gets home from work, I ask her about it while choosing my words carefully.

Her mood always takes a turn for the worse when we talk about writing.

I don't know why.

Maybe she doesn't want to talk to me about that kind of thing.

Or maybe she just doesn't want to talk about work when at home.

I truly have no idea.

I don't know much of anything about my wife.
Arishima
What kind of guy was he?
Shouko
Hah, where is this coming from?

She lets out a sigh of exasperation.
Arishima
It's just that... last night, I kind of...
Arishima
I was remembering the old days, I guess.

She blinks slowly, deep in thought.

After a moment, she sighs again.
Shouko
Just the same as back then, I'd say. I don't think he changed that much from our college days.
Arishima
That so?
Shouko
He seemed like pretty much his normal self even on TV.

She seems tired, but not in a bad mood, thankfully.
Shouko
Why do you ask? Didn't you hate him?
Arishima
Err, I wouldn't say that...

I was flipping through the book from the library until my wife got here, so I place it on the desk for her to see.

It's a novel by Hatano Shuho.

Her eyes widen in surprise and she stares at the cover for a while.
Arishima
A member of his family was at the funeral for Professor Yamada.

She turns to me again.
Shouko
Hatano's family?

I nod.
Shouko
Hah, okay.

She brushes her bangs away and sighs again.
Arishima
You ever met his family?
Shouko
Why would I? He wrote to me since we were both in the same class back then, and I accepted his manuscript. That's all.
Shouko
We only had one meeting. He wasn't exactly lacking in options.
Arishima
I see.

I glance at the book cover.

This is a novel by him.
Arishima
His family home is around here?
Shouko
Yeah. If they haven't moved.
Arishima
...

The image of Rin looking out the bus window appears in my head.

We weren't so far away from its last stop when I got off.

Maybe Rin lives nearby.

Hatano Shuho wasn't really a person that was home much.

It stands to reason, since despite gathering so much attention the public knows so little about his family.
Shouko
I'm gonna head to bed. I'm tired. Night.

When I look up, she's already turned her back on me.

Guess this is the limit.

I can just see her mood taking a nosedive if I try talking to her any more than this.

I watch her walk off without another word.

Then I turn my eyes to the clock on the wall.

It's 1 a.m now.

I wait until she's out of sight before going to my own room.
