
I'm roused by the sound of the living room door opening.

It looks like I passed out on the sofa.

Printed manuscript pages are scattered about the table in front of it.

I finished the rough revisions on Saturday, and I'm currently in the process of ironing out the little kinks.

The sound of the door heralds my wife's return.
Arishima
Oh, you're back.
Shouko
Mhm.

She glances at the papers on the table.
Shouko
So you did it?
Arishima
Yeah, kind of.
Shouko
Huh.

She stares at the manuscript for a while.
Shouko
You wrote what you wanted to write?

I think on the question.
Arishima
I suppose... I also thought maybe it's what I need to write right n—
Shouko
Maybe consider not letting anyone read it.

She cuts me off.

I simply look up at her in silence.
Shouko
I don't know if you can even do that, though.
Shouko
If you enjoyed writing what you want and it was worth something, you wouldn't be a teacher.

After thinking on that for a moment, I nod.
Shouko
Good thing you wrote your little piece. Well done.
Arishima
...
Shouko
Good night.
Arishima
...Good night.

By the time I squeeze out an answer, she's already closed the door behind her.

I don't think she's trying to be mean.

Nor do I think she was trying to throw cold water on my sudden desire to write.

I actually understand where she's coming from.

...She's absolutely right.

I stare at the scattered papers.

Is there any value to this story?

Maybe I'm too old to get my hopes up like this.

What will this manuscript change?

Nothing, that's what.

The whole time I was trying to become a writer, I was writing what I wanted.

And look how I ended up. Living a boring life, waiting for time to wash me away.

There's no way my writing can change someone's life.

I stare at the pages. There are over one hundred of them.

What's even the point of giving this to Rin?

But when I reach out to a page and begin to crumple it...
Rin
I'd like to read what you write, though.
Rin
When can I read it?

I stop myself.

I close my eyes.

Don't throw it all away.

You can't kick down what you built up with your own two hands.

No matter what my wife says.

No matter what anyone says.

Rin, and only Rin, said that she wanted to read my writing.

She said that she wanted to read something written by the person I am right now.

I open my eyes and breathe as I look down at the papers again.

Through this writing, I can face up to the image of Shuho within myself.

If it can help give Rin some insight somehow, it'll have some meaning.

And if she thinks it's not worth reading, she can just throw it away.

That's fine.

I'll give it to her and let her decide what to do with it.

I gather together all the scattered papers and go back to my room.
