
The only sound in the classroom is the empty tapping of chalk on the board.

My hand glides along on pure muscle memory.

I reach the end of the board, then start a new line.

It's the same thing I write every year.

And for another year, I'll write the same thing in four separate classrooms.

Each year the students grow up and leave the classroom behind, while I alone am left behind, stuck and repeating the same loop each time.
Arishima
These are the kind of questions that you tend to see on exam papers. Some old words have multiple meanings, so—

I go over the lesson smoothly, mechanically.

My voice sounds like that of a stranger's in my ears.
Arishima
Memorizing them by rote is a common pitfall. I suggest you get into the habit of inferring their meaning from context through particles and auxiliary verbs.

I go through the motions, like I'm reciting lines in a play.

The sound of tapping chalk is joined now by the sound of students scribbling in notebooks.

I dismiss the class the moment the bell chimes.

That's what the students want. It's what I want too.

I put down the chalk and they close their notebooks.

Their real battlefield isn't this classroom; that'll be the professional world. I know that.

There's no way a part-time instructor like me can prepare them for going out there into the workforce.

I'm not even as close to them as their homeroom teachers.

I'm just in a perpetual ditch, of no use to anyone.

The 300-capacity student cafeteria is almost full at lunch break, so there's a line to order.

I always have lunch here.

My usual routine is eating curry for lunch while reading a book.

It may be an habit from my school days.

Curry is easy to eat with one hand.

There's a reason Jimbocho, a place famous for its used book shops, has so many curry restaurants.

I used to eat curry a lot during my student days.

I've never been especially particular about food.

I'll eat anything that's edible.

The hustle and bustle of the cafeteria makes it a great place to read.

The moderate noise, the people flitting in and out of my peripheral vision.

I like the feeling that I'm leaving it all behind as I get more and more absorbed in my book.

I hold a paperback in one hand while eating curry with the other.

Gradually, the noise of the students fades around me.

The warning bell for the next class rings. I look up.

There are still students in the cafeteria, their empty plates still on the tables as they chatter among themselves.

One girl is gazing out the window, her back toward me.

She's alone at her table, just like me.

She's always alone.

She and I seem to sit in the same seats every day.

My seat always faces hers.

The first thing one notices about her is her striking white hair.

Most students that come to the cafeteria do so with friends in tow.

It's sort of what the cafeteria is for.

But occasionally, you see a student who eats alone.

She's one of them.

There's others that prefer to eat alone, but she's the only one who sticks around to the warning bell.

I've never talked to her.

I'm just a part-time teacher.

I'm not interested in the students, and I don't any more involved than I need to.

I dispassionately fulfill the role I'm assigned; no more, no less.

That's the story of my life.

After finishing my lunch, I head to the small smoking area the set up behind the gymnasium.

There's a ten minute interval between the first and second warning bells, and I tend to spend them here.

It's the only place in the school cut off from the innocence of student life.

Like a place with its own rules.

At this stage in my life, I find the gray haze of the smoke comforting.

Most young teachers will spend most of their lives in a school building.

They rarely have a life outside the school community.

Talking with people like that can be stifling.

When I'm here, I sort of understand how nonconformists during the religious oppression of the middle ages felt.

Heavy smokers have no civil rights. I fill my lungs with smoke, then slowly let it out.

As I watch the gray haze disappear into the ventilation fan, the door opens.
?
Yo.
Arishima
Hey.
?
Gimme one.
Arishima
Again?

I sigh as I hand him a cig and a lighter.
Watanabe
Haah...

Watanabe savors the drag, then exhales.

The little room quickly fills with smoke.
Watanabe
You know Doi? The geography teacher?
Arishima
Yeah.
Watanabe
He got back together with Professor Nakamura.
Arishima
Oh, those two had something going on?

Watanabe stares at me silently, his lips quirking into a half smile.
Watanabe
Man, you really don't give a rat's ass about other people, eh?
Arishima
Not when they're teachers, at least.

Watanabe snickers.
Watanabe
Aren't you a teacher too?
Arishima
Part-time teacher, thank you.
Watanabe
Hahah, no one can tell the difference, man.

Instead of answering, I take another deep drag on my cig.
Watanabe
This time they might even get married and all.
Arishima
Does that mean one of them will transfer?
Watanabe
Professor Nakamura will probably quit.
Arishima
Figures.
Watanabe
Man, talking to her was like a breath of fresh air in this dump.
Watanabe
She's pretty, she's got those cute little dimples, her lunches are always handmade... Heck, watching her eat alone is a pleasure.
Arishima
That so...
Watanabe
What's she like about that ex-delinquent baseball jock?
Arishima
Beats me.
Watanabe
No, I know! Nakamura used to be a model student back in her school days, remember?
Arishima
Beats me.
Watanabe
I'll bet that's all she's ever known, so she's got a thing for bad boys.
Watanabe
She wants someone to shake up her life.

Watanabe nods at his own assertions.
Watanabe
I'd say we're the only adults here, deep down.
Arishima
Is gossiping about people's love lives considered adult behavior now?
Watanabe
Of course. It's a sign of a versatile mind.
Arishima
You sure have a way with words.
Watanabe
Oh, that's high praise coming from a novelist. Thanks.
Arishima
Failed novelist, you mean.

Watanabe laughs.

I fill my lungs with another round of smoke from my cigarette.

That's right.

I'm a failed novelist.

No more, no less.

The years have passed me by as I fail to make anything of myself.

Though it's more like the same year, over and over...

Watanabe asks for one more cig, and I had it over silently.
Watanabe
Ack, spare me! I don't wanna go back.
Arishima
You don't wanna piss off your supervisor.
Watanabe
Can't believe I became a teacher only to still get chewed out by teachers.
Arishima
Sounds like you're still a student, deep down.
Watanabe
*Gasp* Crap!

As soon as we step into the air conditioned corridor, a brown-haired girl notices Watanabe and laughs.
Schoolgirl
Oh, Watadork! Don't worry about us! You can take the afternoon off.
Watanabe
What, you trying to get me in trouble? I'll be right there.

The girl laughs in response to his banter.

Watanabe's quick on his feet. I admire him for that.

Despite us being in the same situation, he carries himself a lot better than me.

Maybe he is the real adult here.

I've got quite a few years on him, but I might still be a child, deep down.

After the two afternoon periods, I head to the library like usual.

I haven't changed since my student days.

Scratch that. I have changed.

Now I get indigestion from fried foods, and I smoke a pack of cigarettes daily.

My body's getting old.

But my mind hasn't matured at all.

I walk on, continuing to chastise myself.

Upon entering the library, I receive a polite nod from a pretty girl. She has short hair held in place with a white headband.

I nod back as I gaze at the smile.

I can imagine a lot of boys come here just to see her.

Such are my idle thoughts as I head for the paperback section.

I've always carried one in my back pocket since my student days.

These pocket paperbacks are the first thing I think of when I think of books.

Only books that go through multiple printings get the pocket paperback treatment.

I learned that only after I started writing professionally.

In the end, none of my books ended up here.

I didn't even manage to snag a rookie award.

It was a pipe dream to expect I'd ever see my work in this format.

I picked up a lot of anecdotes from the publishing world that didn't actually help me with writing, and after years of making excuses, I just stopped trying.

I start skimming the title and author names on the spines.

My eyes stop on the name of a certain author.

I reach for the book.

Hatano Shuho.

An extremely popular domestic writer who passed away before making it to forty years old.

They still air a TV documentary about him once a year.

Sometimes he wrote love stories with effortless prose, and other times he wrote more esoteric pieces that couldn't be categorized neatly by genre.

But no matter what he wrote, it always sold.

Bookstores would set up a special section for every new release, and they'd always be packed with loyal readers.

Since he was unusually approachable for a writer, he often appeared on variety shows.

His popularity and skill were both unmatched.

It's hard to believe we attended the same seminars.

When I saw him publish his debut work while in school, I realized it'd be impossible for me to make a living as a writer.

Still, I lied to myself and tried it for a while. It didn't last long.

It's been... years since I last read a book of his.

But...

I remember my plans for tonight.

The memorial service for a college teacher of mine.

I heard about it last night.

It brought memories of my college days back for the first time in a while.

With Shuho's book in hand, I gaze at the other books on the shelf.

There are empty slots there from where volumes in his serial works have been rented out.

Even now, he's finding new readers at this school.

Even in death he casts a long shadow, reminding me of my sheer inferiority.

After all, failed writers like me are a dime a dozen.

Many literature teachers wanted to be writers themselves at some time.

My story is a common one.

I'm like an extra in someone else's film, no matter where I go.

It was only in recent years that I gave up the illusion and accepted my lot in life.

I grab a two-volume set and take a seat at a table next to a window.

When I sit down, I catch a flash of white  out of the corner of my eye.

I look up and follow it.

It's a girl, her white hair tied at the nape of her neck.

She's the one I saw in the cafeteria.

She stops and pulls out a seat.

She's also holding a Hatano Shuho novel.

It's the same story I chose, but it's the hardcover version.

I move my gaze to her face.

Her deep red eyes stare back into mine.

I quickly turn away to face my table.

I hear her sit behind me as I focus on my book.

When the sun starts setting, the bell rings again.

The days get so long in June.

I close my book and stand up.

As I do, my eyes sweep by the place the girl had been sitting.

She's not there anymore.

I sigh.

Was it a sigh of disappointment, or relief?

I couldn't really say.

I hit up the station closest to the academy and take it two stops down.

I change trains there, then go one more stop.

From there, it's a fifteen minute walk to the residential area where my house is.

As I walk, my cell phone rings.

It's a message from my wife.

I respond and then stow the phone back in my pocket.

...Deceased at sixty-eight years old.

A little young to say he lived a full life.

I hear he had heart failure.

I stare absently at the crimson sunset.

I was twenty-three then.

I was in college.

It was in Yamada's seminar that I met my wife and witnessed the genius of Hatano Shuho firsthand.

A truly electric time, compared to the life I lead now.

Is that the nature of youth?

I used to talk writing with my wife from morning to night, but now we barely speak.

Hatano Shuho's death turned him into a mythological figure. Even now, readers seek out the worlds he created.

Meanwhile, I'm going to walk a quiet road to old age, then to the grave.

I've met thousands of students in my career.

Yet I haven't made an impression with any of them.

I probably won't leave a single mark on this world when I die.

At the ceremony are seminar graduates like me, and people young enough to be current students as well.

He must have been working at the university until just before his death.

There's also a woman with eyes raw from crying.

I offer her my gift, light a stick of incense for the deceased, then make my way out.

The entrance is crowded with attendants in mourning dress going their separate ways.

Among them, a familiar figure draws my eyes.

It's that girl.

The white-haired girl who always eats alone in the cafeteria, who was reading the Hatano Shuho novel in the library today.

She's looking at me.

No, maybe she's just looking in my general direction. I'm not the only person here.

What is she doing here?

I find myself gazing into her deep red eyes.

She slowly blinks, looks down, then starts walking away.

While I watch her walk away, another man leaving the venue bumps into me.
Arishima
Ah, sorry.

I realize I'm in the way and get moving.

Most of the attendees are heading to the nearest station.

I head in the other direction, for the bus stop.

There's no people in mourning clothes here.

I can relax.

A small drop of water falls on my nose.

I look up.

There's a thick, dark canopy over the night sky.

It's going to rain.

I turn the corner and look around for the stop.

It's there, illuminated by a greenish light.
Arishima
Ah...

The sound leaves my throat involuntarily.

That student is there.

She's looking up at the sky, her palm extended upwards.

Gentle droplets patter on the asphalt, leaving small dark stains here and there.

That's all it is at first.

Then suddenly, it's a torrent.

The rain pelts her as she looks up at the sky.

I run for her, searching in my bag for my folding umbrella.

The sound of my shoes on the asphalt echoes over the darkened street.

She hears me coming and looks over at me.
Arishima
Um...
?
...
Arishima
H-Here, I have an umbrella...

I finally find the umbrella in my bag.

I tear off the cover and unbutton the wrap.

Then I panic as I struggle to find the open button.

The fact both of us are getting wetter by the second doesn't help my nerves.

At last, my right thumb finds what it's looking for.

But as I press it, the ribs hinge in reverse, causing the umbrella to unfold inside-out.
Arishima
C-Crap...

I close the umbrella again and straighten out the ribs.
?
...

I finally get it open, and she giggles.

Her smile is so beautiful, I can't help but stop and stare.
?
Thank you.
Arishima
Err, it's nothing, here.

I bring the umbrella closer to her.

She dips her head down to get under it with me.

The raindrops bounce off the canopy.

We stare silently at the road in front of us.
Arishima
Um...
?
Yes?

I look down at her.

She looks at me with upturned eyes.
Arishima
Are you from Shuuhei Academy?
?
I do.
Arishima
I figured.
?
Heheh.

She giggles again.

Once again, I can't help but stare.
?
Why so nervous, Professor?
Arishima
Err, well...

She looks up at me with that same smile on her face.
?
You teach classical literature, right?
Arishima
Yeah.

I nod.
Arishima
So you're in one of my classes.
?
Second year, group one.

I nod.
Arishima
And you're here for...?
?
Professor Yamada did a lot for my father back in the day.
Arishima
I see.

I nod again.
Arishima
So your dad was one of his students.

This time, she nods.
?
Yes.
Arishima
Gotcha.
?
And you?
Arishima
I was in one of his seminars.
?
Oh, I see.
Arishima
...

Our conversation trails off.

I can hear the low purr of the bus's engine as it approaches the stop.

Its headlights illuminate the bus stop before it stops comes to a halt in front of us.

The girl gets on first, and I follow after.

She goes to the back and sits down, leaving space for one more beside her.

As I consider whether I should sit down next to her, she looks at me and tilts her head in puzzlement.

I take a step forward and take the seat at her side.

As the bus departs and rocks a little, our shoulders touch.

She's looking out the window.

I gaze at her white hair.

Now that I see her up close, she has very delicate features.

I feel like she would break if I touched her.

Her head sways slightly as the bus trundles on.

She gives the impression of innocence and youth.

She's not run-down like me.

Her skin is smooth, her hair luminous, her posture upright.

Beneath her delicate exterior, she’s brimming with the irrepressible energy of youth.

As the bus rumbles on, I turn my gaze frontwards.

My stop is getting close.

I turn to her and hold out the umbrella.

She stares at it for a moment in surprise.

After a second or so, she looks up at me.
?
But...

I give her a little nod and place the umbrella in her hand.

She takes it, her eyes still on me.

The bus slowly comes to a stop.
?
Thanks, Professor.
Arishima
No problem.
?
See you tomorrow.

She smiles at me as she says goodbye.

I can feel the engine's vibration through the soles of my feet.

She watches me for a while, then turns back to the window.

I gaze at her a moment longer before turning away as well.
?
...

I watch him walk away, his back hunched.

His shoulders are damp.

Should I really have taken his umbrella?

He pays his fare and gets off the bus, then jogs away.

The bus sets out again.

I try to watch him as he goes, but soon he's out of sight.

I turn my eyes to the opposite window.

The rain is letting up.

The raindrops strike the glass and then roll slowly down.

I can see my faint reflection.

I can't remember his name.

He's the classic literature teacher who barely cares about class.

He's always hunched over and smells of cigarette smoke when you get close.

It's so strange.

I can't remember his name, but these little images of him keep popping up in my mind.

Like raindrops hitting the window.

I wonder why.

As I gaze out the window, I think of him.

The posture of a man who's given up on life.

The blank empty eyes with which he looks over his textbook.

...Ah, I see.

The reason is there in my reflection.

Those blank, empty eyes...

They're the same as mine.
