
I'm smoking another cigarette as I boil water.

It's one thing to decide to write again. It's another thing to figure out how to go about it.

I still want to do a depiction of Shuho.

But his image is too big, too broad.

First I need to figure out what side of him I want to capture.

He has become something akin to an idol from my perspective, but his true self still eludes me.

No matter how I try, I can't get a grip on the reality.

As I sit in the kitchen, smoking, my eyes fall on the album I dropped on the coffee table yesterday.

I hear the electric kettle click off as the water reaches a boil.

I put out the cig and finish the coffee.

Then I settle on the sofa with my mug.

I open the album and look through the photos.

The only pictures with me and Shuho together are one I took with my wife, and one of the group as a whole.

He's smiling in every photo.

It occurs to me that while I've spent so long being envious of Shuho, this was the only time our paths actually crossed.

I look at the album again.

It's strange.

He feels like such a normal person here.

If I can take the man in these photos and supplement it with my own imagination, I might get something worthwhile.

If I start with this party and follow his life as an ordinary young man, I might be able to visualize the outline of what I need.

I'm twenty years older than he was at that time.

That should let me maintain some objectivity.

And the scale should be just about right.

If I can make my image of Shuho clearer, I'll be able to compare ourselves more easily.

I'll be able to see if there are similarities, and the differences will be more apparent.

I finish my coffee in no time.

I'd forgotten what writing felt like for me; a process of indirectly sorting things out in my head.

The outline of what I want to write becomes clearer and clearer.

I always loved this feeling.

Time to put some words to paper.

I'm not even thinking about whether Rin will read it anymore.

I just feel like finally unloading all this toxic negativity that has been piling up for years inside me.

And for that, I need to write.

It's the 1990s.

A certain bar in the student district.

I start writing, checking the album from time to time to refresh my memory.

The bar is cheerful and bustling.

The beer on tap is tasteless and barely carbonated, but at least it's cold.

The whole place smells of the fermented seafood traditionally eaten with booze.

It's all coming back to me now.

There are about thirty people there.

The star of the night is Hatano Shuho, who just won major publisher's rookie award while studying in university.

Every person there is looking at him, thinking about him.

I'm no exception.

I arrived late, then congratulated Shuho like everyone else.

He answered with a smile and a hearty word of thanks.

Then I took a seat in a corner and drank my beer alone.

After about thirty minutes, the seminar's teacher and a veteran of the publishing world said a few words. Then Shuho spoke of his future aspirations, and we went our separate ways.
Arishima
...

I write about the day just as it happened.

Later, Shuho was taken to an after-party.

I wasn't there, so I can't go on memory.

From this point on, it's all speculative fiction.

But the things I do know lend atmosphere to my speculation.

I can write this.

As I start to gain momentum, I think back on what I was doing at the same time.

After a moment, I remember.

I slipped out that day with my future wife, and we spoke in a family restaurant until just before the last train ran.

...

The more I think about it, the more strange it becomes.

Even back then, my wife had her mind set on becoming an editor.

Why would she abandon her chance to talk to Shuho to hang out with me instead?

I don't know.

I've no idea what she was feeling at the time.
Arishima
...

A thought strikes me, to follow this other pair as well.

That party was the only time my path and Shuho's ever crossed.

If I started writing about myself using this party as a starting point, what would come out?

I notice the thoughts bubbling up in the back of my mind, and push them out.

Losing focus is a bad habit of mine.

I picture Tadakanobaba Station as it was back in those days.

Full of night traffic and noisy students.

Drunken freshman sleeping on the road, upperclassmen belting out their school songs.

I imagine Hatano Shuho walking through such a scene.

And I keep writing.
